
Republicans Shy Away From Presidential Visits
 Republicans Shy Away From Presidential Visits
 Candidates Keep Bush at Bay, Even in His Own Brother's State
 By MARTHA RADDATZ
Nov. 6, 2006
 Of the three red states where President Bush has stumped today,
 a rally in Florida, where his brother is governor, has attracted
 the most attention, because Republican gubernatorial candidate
 Charlie Crist won't be there.
 The Florida governor's race has taken a political back seat as
 Democrats close their margins on key seats that could mean a takeover
 in the House and Senate.
 Crist, Florida's current attorney general, has in part devoted his
 campaign strategy to blocking attacks by Democratic challenger
 Jim Davis that have linked Crist to the national wave of anti-Republican sentiment.
 Davis quickly publicized Crist's avoidance of the Bush rally,
 and was quick to link Crist's no-show to the president's sagging poll numbers.
 "Now that the president is so unpopular," Davis said, "Charlie refuses
 to stand side by side with him."
 Crist insists that backing out of the appearance was not a snub at
 the president but a campaign necessity, and he emphasized his need
 to spend time in major television markets and more competitive parts
 of the state, where his lead could be stronger.
 Whatever the reason, the fact that Crist was willing to pass up
 an opportunity to share the stage with Bush speaks volumes about
 the president's popularity — or lack thereof — this
 campaign season.
 Who will stand by the president's side in Florida? In addition to his
 brother and first lady Laura Bush, he'll have Rep. Katherine Harris,
 who is more than 20 points down in her bid for the Senate against Democratic
 incumbent Bill Nelson.
 Crist took to stages in Miami and Boca Raton with former New York Mayor
 Rudolph Giuliani, blasting Davis on issues like national security. As
 The Miami Herald reported, he attacked Davis' congressional trip to Cuba
 and his meeting with the late Yasser Arafat.
 "I threw Yasser Arafat out of a U.N. conference," Giuliani said on Sunday's
 stump for Crist. "Better than that, I didn't invite Fidel Castro.''
 Davis later criticized the GOP for using Cuba in a way he described as "shameful."
Fight for U.S. Congress focuses on turnout
